# Frequently Asked Questions for BLP

# What is BLP? 

It is a econometric model of consumer (and firm) behaviour in a market. It is estimated by a mix of traditional estimation and simulation based approaches. It gives us both point estimates about things the users care about (e.g. prices, attributes about the product) and what firms might care about. 

# Why do we need BLP? 

There are some problems other models cannot solve: 

- Substitution: typical log-log regressions cannot solve this, but logit can.
- IIA problem: typical logit cannot solve this, but nested/mixed logit can. 
- Price endogeneity: typical nested/mixed logit cannot solve this. This is the main contribution of BLP, to solve this problem via instruments. It can also be solved with mixed logit + control function approach (but that is a different identification strategy)
- Many products: AIDS type of systems cannot handle many products.  

The BLP is a mixed logit model that handles price endogeneity through instruments. The contraction mapping is the main step that solves this problem. 

# What is the raw data that we need for BLP? 

- $t$: index of market (e.g. city-quarter)
- $j$: product index (e.g. Kellogs Cereal)
- $p_{jt}$: prices that vary for products accross markets
- $x_{jt}$: observed characteristics of the prodcuts that can vary accross markets (e.g. appearance, sugar content)
- $s_{0t}$: share of consumers who purchase none of this
- $d_{it}$: fake demographic data on consumer-households $i$
 in a given demographic (drawn from Census distributions and so on e.g. age, income, family size)

 # What are some qeustions that we can answer using demand-estimation? 

- Elasticity matrix ($JxJ$): if I raise prices by 5%, how much sales do I lose?  
- Diversion: if I raise prices by 5%, which competitors stand to benefit? 
- Merger/Divesture Simulation: if two firms owning some sets of products merge, what happens to prices? 
- New Goods: How much consumer welfare is generated by the introduction of a new product? 
- Markups: We do not see wholesale costs, but what is the estimated profit margin on each product? 
- Unobserved quality: What part of the quality fo product is unobserved? 
- Cost shocks: What happens if costs rise? 

# The core models? 

- Logit
- Nested/Mixed Logit
- BLP
- Micro BLP
- BLP with supply side


# Common problems in estimation

- Finding strong and valid instruments for price coefficient: essentially cost shifters are needed. 
- Non convex objective function: can be stuck in local optima. Have to re-run. 
- Market definition: If we mess up the share of the outside good or the total extent of the market then price coefficient estimates can be wrong. 
- Have to keep sharp tolerance in the contraction mappings
- Numerical integration: have to simulate many draw